# Spectral wave model of the Southern North Sea

This README provides practical and background information on the dataset. The dataset can be cited as:

> DHI. (2025). Spectral wave model of the Southern North Sea: MIKE 21 SW model setup, outputs and observation data (1.0) [Data set]. Zenodo. [LINK](LINK)

See the [license](license.txt) for details on data usage.

## Intended use

This dataset is designed to support educational, research, and exploratory activities, including:

* Experimenting with coastal and ocean modeling using MIKE 21 SW.
* Validating spectral wave model outputs with observational data.
* Developing methods for automatic model parameter calibration.
* Building data-driven models, including machine learning surrogates of MIKE simulation results.


## Folder structure

The repository is organized in the following way

- code
    + Jupyter notebooks exploring the dataset
    + Jupyter notebooks for model validation using observations
    + a requirements file (.txt)
- data-preprocessing
    + Jupyter notebooks downloading observation data
    + Jupyter notebooks preprocessing observation data
    + station txt files
- figures
    + figures generated by notebooks
- observations
    + csv files containing observational data for model validation
- output_sample
    + a reduced MIKE model result data file (.dfsu and .dfs0)
- README.md

Separately from the current repository, you can find the output zip file (in Zenodo):

- output
    + MIKE model result data (.dfsu and .dfs0)


## Introduction

This folder contains data for a MIKE 21 Spectral Wave Model flexible mesh simulation in the southern part of the North Sea. The model domain spans from the English Channel along the southern and eastern English coast, part of the northern French coast, and the coasts of Belgium, the Netherlands, northwest Germany, and southwest Denmark.

The dataset covers the period 2022-01-01 to 2022-12-31. Since the simulation includes a spin-up period, it is recommended to discard the first two days of result data for analysis.

## The MIKE 21 Spectral Wave Module

MIKE 21 Flow Model FM is a modelling system based on a flexible mesh approach. The modelling system has been developed for applications within oceanographic, coastal and estuarine environments. The governing equation is the wave action balance equation formulated in either Cartesian or spherical coordinates. 

More information can be found [in the documentation](https://manuals.mikepoweredbydhi.help/latest/Coast_and_Sea/M21SW_Scientific_Doc.pdf).




## Other stuff


Copernicus Marine: Download data from dashboard: https://marineinsitu.eu/dashboard/
Copernicus Marine In Situ TAC: Physical parameters list: https://archimer.ifremer.fr/doc/00422/53381/108477.pdf

Stations:

| First Header  | Second Header |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |



